---
date: 2024-09-16T10:47:08Z
lastmod: 2024-09-16T10:47:08Z
title: Tiempos 2024/09
author: Rodolfo Berrios
summary: September 2024
image: /photos/2024/pexels-pixabay-414110.jpg
tags:
  - tiempos
---

Chevereto creator [Rodolfo Berríos](https://rodolfoberrios.com) here, sharing the latest updates from Chevereto in this September edition of Tiempos.

## Chevereto v4.2.0 progress

Chevereto v4.2.0 is shaping up to be a landmark release, already holding the record for the highest commit activity in the project's history. This milestone reflects the extensive improvements and new features being introduced.

While it started with [tags](2024-04-04-tags.md), Chevereto v4.2.0 has expanded to include a wide range of essential enhancements and optimizations. This release brings significant improvements in speed, security, performance, and control, offering a dramatically enhanced quality of service.

### Additions

The most notable addition in Chevereto v4.2.0 is the introduction of file [tags](2024-04-04-tags.md), which allows you to label content and makes it easier to organize, browse and filter for files. Chevereto's tag system is flexible, supporting a wide range of characters, including emojis and works with natural language. Additionally, Chevereto intelligently tracks and detects tag usage, providing advanced filtering criteria. It can identify the most used and trending tags both globally and for individual users.

There's also several other noteworthy additions, such as a new dark palette, a system color palette that adjusts based on operating system preferences, support for path-style endpoints in external storage, support for AVIF image format, system variables, configurable HTTP caching, and more.

Here's a summary of the latest additions:

- Added file tags
- Added web manifest
- Added all-new dark palette
- Added "System" color palette prefers-color-scheme
- Added "Use path style endpoint" option for External Storage
- Added asset storage deletions with queues
- Added removal for External Storage
- Added setting for asset storage
- Added system variables
- Added apple-mobile-web-app-title property
- Added color-scheme dark for applicable palettes
- Added curl command example under `/dashboard/settings/guest-api`
- Added curl command example under `/settings/api`
- Added ESC key binding to clear and close search boxes
- Added logout button for account routes
- Added cron runtime stat
- Added tags stat
- Added image only Explorer listing
- Added support for AVIF image format
- Added requirement for PHP 8.1
- Added automatic ini_set for settings mismatch
- Added xrDebug configuration from database to ENV
- Added canonical URL for /explore
- Added configurable cache ttl
- Added configurable video routing
- Added error log configuration for cron and CLI
- Added keywords meta tag
- Added more ENV configurable limits
- Added more ENV system configurable toggles
- Added more error log information
- Added setting to toggle guest album creation
- Added support for before/forward cache (bfcache)
- Added support for case-sensitive url_key for categories
- Added root user for CLI

### Improvements

Chevereto v4.2.0 introduces a range of enhancements focused on performance, security, and user experience. The confirmation table now features a more efficient index to prevent potential DoS attacks. Settings have been made more robust with improved checking and session management now supports various storage options, including Redis. Additionally, numerous user experience improvements have been implemented, ensuring a smoother and more intuitive interface.

Here's a summary of the latest improvements:

- Improved confirmation table indexes
- Improved cron error handling
- Improved form validation handling
- Improved handling for boolean settings
- Improved handling for string settings (HTML safe)
- Improved session handling
- Improved credentials handling for External Storage
- Improved actions by disabling key feedback message
- Improved album cover button icon
- Improved default avatar from guest owned content
- Improved External Storage error display
- Improved palette "blanco" renaming it to "light"
- Improved post upload message for guest
- Improved select elements display for Safari
- Improved share modals now use short URL
- Improved user experience by removing redundant success alerts

### Bug fixes

Chevereto v4.2.0 fixes some nasty bugs, many thanks to all uses who [reported](https://chevereto.com/go/bug-tracking) these.

Here's a summary of the latest bug fixes:

- Fixed bug in account change email confirm
- Fixed bug in album editing allowing empty string
- Fixed bug in failing asset upload when running in sub-dir
- Fixed bug in front controller
- Fixed bug in missing oEmbed tags when using custom image routing
- Fixed bug in not working album share button
- Fixed bug in oEmbed XML output
- Fixed bug in password reset
- Fixed bug in URL-based lang change for logged users
- Fixed bug in user avatar upload
- Fixed bug in video upload when using watermarks
- Fixed bug in wrong redirects when running in sub-dir
- Fixed bug in wrong URL for album sharing
- Fixed ErrorException on contact page
- Fixed ErrorException on route json

### Removals

Chevereto v4.2.0 removes several outdated or redundant features, replacing them with more efficient alternatives. Notably, `History.js` has been deprecated in favor of native History API support in modern browsers. The local upload failover and re-check mechanisms have been removed to enhance performance. Additionally, unload events have been eliminated as part of the ongoing effort to streamline the codebase.

Here's a summary of the latest removals:

- Removed History.js and unload events
- Removed local uploads re-check
- Removed switch to local upload failover
- Removed top bar hide/show on scrolling

## Chevereto.cloud

Chevereto Cloud is set to launch later this year, marking a major milestone for the platform. Designed to bring the full power of Chevereto to a broader audience, Chevereto Cloud offers the same robust features as the self-hosted version, but with the added convenience of not having to manage your own server. Users will be able to use their own domain, customize storage options, and enjoy a seamless experience without the technical overhead of server management. For those interested in early access, you can [pre-sign up](https://forms.gle/PTKDXEXL3Rca3LjV7) to stay informed and be among the first to try it out.

## Requests for changes (RFC)

In the Chevereto community, we've received several requests for changes. You're welcome to suggest your own ideas or vote on existing ones to help shape the future of the platform. Chevereto thrives on community input, making it a truly user-driven project.

- [Advanced SEO Optimization](https://chevereto.com/community/threads/advanced-seo-optimization.15568/)
- [Improve Media Information Bar [background color, type, views, likes]](https://chevereto.com/community/threads/improve-media-information-bar-background-color-type-views-likes.15573/)
- [Shared Albums](https://chevereto.com/community/threads/shared-albums.15575/)
- [Banner for Album](https://chevereto.com/community/threads/banner-for-album.15589/)
- [Automatic metadata based tagging](https://chevereto.com/community/threads/automatic-metadata-based-tagging.15593/)
- [Ability to remove or ban followers](https://chevereto.com/community/threads/ability-to-remove-or-ban-followers.15597/)

## Contribute to Tiempos

Get in [contact](https://chevereto.com/contact) if you'd like to have your link featured here.

## Thanks for reading

Don't hesitate to visit the [Chevereto Community](https://chevereto.com/community) forums to share your feedback, suggestions, or any tips you may have. Let's keep the conversation going!
